hello everyone welcome to the next
lecture in theory of computation and in
this lecture we will be seeing another
example of how to figure out what a DFA
recognizes in the previous examples we
have seen and learned how to design
particular DFAS and in this lecture we
will be seeing given a DFA how to figure
out what it recognizes all right so
let's get started
okay so here we have a DFA we have a DFA
over here we have this figure over here
and we have to find out or we have to
figure out what this DFA recognizes so
just by looking at this what can we see
we see that we have a starting State
here which is a and then a on getting
input one it goes this way and a on
getting input zero it goes this way so
let's find out what kind of strings does
it
accept so first we are in state a and on
getting input one it goes to State B so
we get an input one and it goes to State
B and in state B it could either get
input one or zero and if it get input
zero it directly goes to D on getting
zero it directly goes to D which is a
final state right d has a double circle
which shows it it is a final state so 1
Z is accepted right 1 Z is accepted and
also
also uh it could come like this starting
from a it goes to B on getting input one
you got one and then in B it could get
input one again instead of zero it may
it one so on getting one it stays in B
so let's say it got another one it stays
in B and let's say it got another one
again it again stays in B so it can get
any number of ones and it stays in B so
let's say it gots
a few ones over here out of this state B
and then finally when it gets a zero it
goes to D which is a final
state it goes to the final state so this
one how did we get we got this one from
this state a right from State a and
these ones it came from this state
B on running in state B it got
all these ones so this is from State
B and on getting zero it goes to State D
so this is also accepted right so we
find we found two kind of strings that
will be accepted and then is that the
end no we have another part over here so
let's check out for this part here when
it when we start from the starting State
a and if it gets input zero it goes to
State C so on getting zero it goes to
State C
and in C if we get input one it goes to
State e right and it reaches the final
state so this is also
accepted okay so how can we generalize
this or how can we summarize and write
down what does this DFA recognize so I
can say that this DFA it recognizes the
string 01 or it recognizes a string
which contains at least one one one one
what I mean by one one is at least
one binary digit one all right at least
one binary digit one followed by any
number of
ones and followed by a
zero all right so it should have at
least one binary digit one followed by a
zero so this one is going to be there
for sure and it could either the next
digit could either be a zero or it could
be followed by a series of ones and then
zero so this is what is recognized by my
DFA so how can I write this
down so this is how I can write it down
L equal to a language that accepts the
string 01 or a string of at least one
minor digit one followed by a zero so if
it comes this way it accepts the string
01 01 or a string of at least one binary
digit one that is this one followed by a
zero so it could be at least this I have
written here at least at least means it
could be one or more than one from here
followed by a zero so this is what is
accepted by this DFA okay so far so good
now let me write down some let me write
down some strings and see what happens
when we pass these strings to this
DFA okay for example
for example let me take these strings 0
1 0 1
0 0 1
1 1 1 0
1 and 1 1 0 0 okay let us just try to
pass these strings we know that these
strings were already accepted now let us
try to pass these strings in this DFA
and let's see what
happens okay for the first let me start
with this 0 0 1 0 on getting the I start
from my starting set and on getting the
first zero I come to State C and what is
my next input zero again this is I'm in
state C and I get zero oops now where
would I go I know I should if I get a
one I should go here but if I get a zero
where should I go I have no more place
to go is that
wrong okay let's check for this string 0
1 0 I get a zero and I come to State C I
get a one and I come to State
e and
then I get another zero over here when
I'm in state e and oops again I don't
have a place to go I don't have a place
to go what about this string
011 0 1 and when I get another one there
is no place to go from here again and
what about this 1 one 0 1 one and here I
get another one here all right so far so
good and I get zero next this zero next
and I come to State D and I get one in
state D I'm in state D and I get one and
again I don't have a place to go what
does this mean let's check for the last
string again 1 1 0 0 1 1 0 and I get
another zero and from here there is no
place to go again so what is the meaning
of this where do I what is this DFA
wrong or where do I send these states to
when I get this kind of inputs actually
this DFA is not wrong so what we need to
do is we need to complete this by
mentioning something known as a dead
State these strings are anywh not going
to be accepted we know that the only
strings that are going to be accepted is
the one which we wrote here in this L
these are the only strings and these
strings over here does not follow this
rule or does not follow this kind of
strings so these are not going to be AC
accepted for sure so when we reach a
place uh a state in a DFA and don't have
a place to go that means that it goes to
a state that is known as a debt state so
let us complete this DFA and I will
mention a state which I will call
x and x is what I call as Deb State all
right X is my debt State and I will
complete my DFA using this Deb States so
let us start from here uh a I already
mentioned if it gets one it goes here if
it gets zero it goes here so a is
complete no need to do anything with a
and let's come to b b on getting input
zero it goes to D and on getting input
one it stays in itself so it it is okay
for with both zero and one it is
complete but for State D State D does
not know where to go even if it gets
zero or one so I will send it to the de
State I will send it to the
Deb state so whether it
gets zero or one it comes to this Deb
State all right now let's come here a is
already complete and C C on getting
input once goes to State e but on
getting input zero it does not have a
place to go so we will send it to the
dead
State all right on getting input
zero and state e what happens to State e
State e also does not have a place to go
even if it gets input zero or one so we
will send State e also to the de
State either zero or one okay now we can
check these strings 0 0 1
zero right if it gets zero it comes to
State C and it gets another zero goes to
State X and one oh our dead state is
also not complete we did not mention
what happens if we get 0 or one in the
de state so whatever you get in the de
State 0 or 1 it stays in the de
State 0 1 okay so 0 0 1 0 0 and in X we
get one so it stays in X itself so this
that state is not a terminating State
means it is not a final state so
whatever comes in this that say is also
a non-accepting state means those
strings will not be accepted now 0 1 0
0 1 0 go to the de State 0 1 1 0 1 1 go
to the de death State 1 1 0 1 1 1 0 1
comes to the death State 1 1 0 0 1 1 0 0
again comes to the dead state so X is
called
our
dead state so this is how you complete
the D FAA
so if you see an example given without a
dead state or without when you see that
uh a specific state does not have a
place to go so you should assume that it
goes to a dead state so this is how you
complete a DFA and in this example we
have studied how to figure out what a
DFA recognizes and we have also figured
out a way how to complete a DFA so I
hope this example was clear to you about
how to figure out DFA and how to
complete the state using a dead state
[Music]